Cadence · Physical therapy & rehab · Daily evidence — 2026-09-19

Short-Term Effects of Shockwave Therapy with Physiotherapy on Chronic Stroke Spasticity, Walking, and Quality of Life

11 updates today across 5 specialties. 5 worth your time 👇

1️⃣ [Neuro] Short-Term Effects of Radial Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy in Addition to Physiotherapy on Spasticity, Walking Performance, and Quality of Life in Chronic Stroke: A Sham-Controlled Randomized Trial.
Radial extracorporeal shock wave therapy combined with physiotherapy significantly improves spasticity, walking performance, and quality of life in chronic stroke patients with plantar flexor spasticity in the short term.
— NeuroRehabilitation

2️⃣ [Geriatric] Approach to sarcopenia in older adults: a systematic review of dietary and exercise interventions in the primary care setting
This systematic review affirms the positive role of combined dietary and exercise interventions for sarcopenia in older adults within primary care.
— BMC Geriatrics

3️⃣ [Neuro] Alignment between goals and subjective memory concerns in measuring outcomes of memory rehabilitation post-stroke.
This study indicates that in post-stroke memory rehabilitation, goal-consistent memory problems respond more significantly to interventions than inconsistent ones.
— Disability and rehabilitation

4️⃣ [Geriatric] REmotely monitored, Mobile health-supported Multidomain Rehabilitation with High Intensity Interval Training for COVID-19 (REMM-HIIT-CoV): Trial Design and Rationale.
This pre-registered protocol is noteworthy.
— Physical therapy

5️⃣ [Cardiopulmonary] Effect of Music-Based Interventions in Cardiac Rehabilitation: A Systematic Review.
This systematic review affirms the value of music-based interventions as an adjunct to cardiac rehabilitation (CR), particularly in improving patient psychological well-being, motivation, and adherence.
— American journal of physical medicine & rehabilitation

#PhysicalTherapy #Physiotherapy #Rehabilitation #SportsMedicine #EvidenceBasedPractice
